# 6. Saving and fetching data

Our new `NSPersistentContainer` comes bundled with a `viewContext` property. This property allows us to perform Core Data operations on the main thread. Whenever we initialize a new Core Data entity, we must point it to a managed context.

The managed context acts as a sort of manager which keeps track of our Core Data entities. It knows which changes are persisted and which are not. With our persistent container set up, let’s add the functionality for saving a new `StoredTaskItem` entity.

```swift
func saveTaskItem(_ taskItem: TaskItem) {

		// 1.
    let entity = StoredTaskItem(context: persistentContainer.viewContext)

    // 2.
    entity.title = taskItem.title
    entity.subtitle = taskItem.subtitle
    entity.isCompleted = taskItem.isCompleted

    // 3.
    do {
        try persistentContainer.viewContext.save()
    } catch {

		    // 4.
        persistentContainer.viewContext.rollback()
    }
}
```

We created a new function which takes our simple `TaskItem` struct and uses it to create a new `StoredTaskItem` Core Data entity.

1. We initialize a `StoredTaskItem` by pointing it to the `viewContext` created by the `NSPersistentContainer`. This allows us to perform Core Data operations on the main thread;

1. We populate the `title`, `subtitle` and `isCompleted` fields;

1. Finally, we attempt to persist our changed by calling the `save()` method. In case something fails (*e.g., a required field was not set)*, then the save process fails and an exception is being thrown.

1. In case we do encounter an exception, we call `rollback()` to reset our pending changes.

<aside>
💬

You might be wondering where did the `StoredTaskItem` class come from, since we didn’t create it ourselves? In our Core Data model, we have a `Codegen` property, which specifies if we want to have code generation for our created entities or not. This option is enabled by default.

</aside>

A helpful way of looking at managed contexts is through the lens of Git. When we create a new `StoredTaskItem` with a managed context, we’re basically making the equivalent operation as `git add` - meaning that we’re adding files to the staging environment, but they’re not yet committed.

Only after we call `viewContext.save()` we actually persist our changes, which in terms of Git, is the equivalent of `git commit`.

---

# Fetching Data

With our saving functionality in place, let’s look at how we can actually fetch data from Core Data. Take a look at the following method:

```swift
func fetchTaskItems() throws -> [TaskItem] {

		// 1.
    let fetchRequest = StoredTaskItem.fetchRequest()

    // 2.
    let fetchedItems = try persistentContainer.viewContext.fetch(fetchRequest)

    // 3.
    return fetchedItems.map {
        TaskItem(
            title: $0.title ?? "N/A",
            subtitle: $0.subtitle,
            isCompleted: $0.isCompleted
        )
    }
}
```

Fetching items takes place with the help of `NSFetchRequest`. A fetch request basically specifies *what*, and *how* items should be fetched from the persistent storage. Let’s break this down step by step:

1. When we enable `Codegen` in our Core Data model editor, it will not only create our entity classes for us, but also generate a helpful fetch request method for us. It is mostly for convenience, and there is no difference from writing this manually ourselves as such:

```swift
let request = NSFetchRequest<StoredTaskItem>()
```

1. With our fetch request ready, we simply ask our managed context to fetch items from Core Data that satisfy our fetch request. In our case, fetch all `StoredTaskItem` items.

1. Finally, since we don’t want to work with `StoredTaskItem` directly, but instead work with `TaskItem` instead, we map the response before returning it. Note how all properties of `StoredTaskItem` are all optional by default. This is how `Codegen` generates our class. If we prefer to have non-optional fields, we would need to disable code generation and manually create the entity class ourselves.

<aside>
💬

You might be wondering why do we choose to use `TaskItem` instead of working with `StoredTaskItem` directly? The answer is that, as previously mentioned, Core Data is an old technology - older than Swift. As such, there’s a lot of Objective-C “gimmicks” that we still need to deal with when interacting with Core Data entities.

It is much easier and cleaner to simply use native Swift types and create/use our entities only in the context of our `PersistenceService` .

</aside>

# Filtering and sorting data:

---

As mentioned previously, fetch requests contain all the necessary information regarding *what* and *how* something should be fetched from Core Data. Let’s explore how we can customize our fetch request even further.

Here’s a new method, which fetches only completed items and returns them in alphabetical order:

```swift
func fetchCompletedItems() throws -> [TaskItem] {

    // 1.
    let fetchRequest = StoredTaskItem.fetchRequest()

    // 2.
    fetchRequest.predicate = NSPredicate(
        format: "isCompleted == %@",
        NSNumber(value: true)
    )

    // 3.
    fetchRequest.sortDescriptors = [
        NSSortDescriptor(keyPath: \StoredTaskItem.title, ascending: true)
    ]

    // 4.
    let fetchedItems = try persistentContainer.viewContext.fetch(fetchRequest)

    return fetchedItems.map {
        TaskItem(
            title: $0.title ?? "N/A",
            subtitle: $0.subtitle,
            isCompleted: $0.isCompleted
        )
    }
}
```

1. As always, we start by creating our fetch request;

2. We then use an `NSPredicate` and specify a filter condition. In our case, return all items where `isCompleted == true`;

3. We then specify that the items should be sorted based on their title, in ascending order;

4. Finally, we perform the fetch request and map the results;
